You know, I just noticed you actually still have the Intel sticker on your laptop.
I suppose I do.
You're not like a sticker remover, but you also you haven't added any more stickers in that general region.
You do have the stickers on the lid, though.
Yeah, I mean, it's been a while since I've collected new stickers, so I haven't I haven't thought about it for a bit.
What about you, Brent? Are you a no stickers guy or are you some stickers?
You take off the stickers the machine comes with.
I traditionally did because I didn't want to have all that.
It's the difference in texture that got me.
But I'm looking at my laptop now and I'm embarrassed to say there's actually a Windows Pro sticker on the bottom.
Oh, no.
Brent, I know.
Do you still have that license key?
Hey, you never know. I'm sure I do.
Maybe it'll come in handy one day.
Hello, friends, and welcome back to your weekly Linux talk show.
My name is Chris. My name is Wes.
And my name is Brent.
Hello, gentlemen.
You know, coming up on the show today, we thought, oh, boy, we've done a lot in the last few weeks.
We have the tuxes.
We rolled out a new server and we chatted about ways that might be a little bit outside the box to fund free software.
And we realized we need to take a minute and catch up with everything you've been writing in.
There's a ton of feedback that's coming in, some really good, deep thoughts.
People have spent some time.
They've really wrote some compelling arguments.
So we want to give it all a little bit of a fair share and take the counter perspective in, talk about those things.
And then we're going to round out the show with some picks and some, I don't know, do we actually have any picks?
I don't actually. I mean, I have some surprise picks.
We could do a surprise pick.
That could be kind of fun.
Oh, yeah.
OK, we should think about how we can make that fun.
Also, later in the show, we got to do a check in on our new server.
There is a new kernel and it's time to upgrade.
Oh, yep.
We're going to see how that ZFS array holds up.
So before we go any further, we got to say time appropriate greetings to our virtual lug.
Hello, Mumble and Jitsi room.
Hello.
Hello, everybody. Thank you for being here on a Sunday on our new time.
Since we've moved to Sundays, we've been co-running a Jitsi room, which we're still working out.
But it's also a very interesting technical challenge from like a jack audio routing side to have Mumble, Jitsi recordings and all of that on one box.
So it's been a fun experiment.
You can hang out in there and get the video feed, which is pretty much just the chat room, which you could just pull up on your own.
Maybe a random Brent shows up on screen from time to time.
I bet so.
Or you could just come here and maybe you'll see him in person, although maybe not.
This is Brent's last day.
Oh, oh, well, not tomorrow, I suppose, is the day I try to get out of here.
Not last day in general.
You're not dying. You're not leaving.
Right, right, right, right.
Well, we don't know how his travel is going to go.
I mean, it was pretty rough getting here.
So I mean, I saw you guys whispering back and forth earlier.
I don't know. Maybe you're inspiring to have me stay.
I don't think the shackles arrived in time.
We're just trying to find somebody that could just maybe take a test for you.
We don't have to get you sick, but we just want the test to fail so they won't let you leave.
That's all. Yeah.
So that's that's coming up.
But it's been fun. You know, there's been some construction projects.
The studio has a new door and a new a new floor around the pooper upstairs.
That's been pretty great.
We're really getting this place ready because on the 30th, we're having our meetup and hang out.
We're going to do a live lap.
We're going to open up the door to the audience.
Have you come over? We'll show you the hard work that Brent did.
Probably not. But, you know, because it'll be covered up.
But, you know, you can still come out, hang out.
I can't guarantee Brent will be here, though.
Well, you can never guarantee that.
No, but I think you're going to be here.
I'll be probably a pretty good guarantee of that.
Definitely.
Probably, you know, Levi will be here.
So that's really all you need.
So meetup.com slash Jupiter Broadcasting.
If you want to come chow, bring your favorite meal is encouraged.
You don't have to. We'd still love to have you.
But, you know, maybe it'd be nice if you brought something, not your mother.
You know what I'm saying?
I mean, unless she's into Linux.
Yeah, actually, bring your mom. That'd be great.
I'd love to meet her.
So we have put out a couple of fun episodes and I say that legitimately.
You know, sometimes people say, oh, they're fun.
No, they actually were a lot of fun because Brent and I kept the microphones rolling
during our road trip this summer to Denver.
We captured some good stuff and we just published two episodes from the trip.
We published two episodes from that series.
One is just kind of our memories of the road trip and what some of the harder moments
were like and some of the hashtag RV life moments that Brent had to learn.
I had to learn them the hard way and the quick way.
Yeah, I think that was pretty a pretty fun way to do it.
If I remember, I got to say, we must not have wrecked you because Brent spent the
night last night at Lady Jupes.
And it's like coming home, right?
And the slide was working this time.
Right.
Thirty percent bigger. I don't know. Great, great stuff.
Isn't that nice?
Yeah. Oh, it's just high fluting.
And then the second episode we just published, we actually recorded while we were on the
road and we just been we've been waiting to release it.
And it's all of the tech that we used.
So from Internet connectivity and VPN and how we use the audio equipment and how we
did all of that, I mean, just the whole range plus the automation stuff I do in the RV.
That's all in that extra.
My ever happy we recorded that when we did, because you and I were trying to remember
all the tech that we used and it was a mountain of tech to make all of that happen.
I was impressed for sure.
Yeah. Remember how you just kept doing all the shows pretty much right on schedule while
you traversed across the West?
Yeah. And even held up in Tucson, which was really putting into the test.
So that's all over at extras dot show.
And there's some more in the pipeline.
You can always subscribe to that.
It's not a very active feed, so we're not going to spam you with a ton of shows.
We are trying to do a little bit more in there just because we like to hang out as a
group. And sometimes we like to do that online.
So we thought maybe we try to capture that more often.
And now that we're doing the show on Sundays, Tuesday is kind of opened up and it's not
something we're going to do long term, but at least for the short term, we're kind of
hanging out. And sometimes I'm releasing kind of the best bits from that in that feed
as well. And it has to be of a certain bar.
I'm not just going to throw anything in there unless, you know, unless I got nothing else.
I mean, let's be honest.
I think the fun quotient is really how we're measuring it.
Yeah, it was a good time.
It was a good hang.
So go get you can grab that at extras dot show slash subscribe.
So let's let's just kind of make a whole episode out of everything that people have
been writing into the show about.
And let's start in our feedback grab bag.
Simon wrote in with some feedback about the tuxes.
I think that's probably a pretty good place to start.
Yeah. Simon wrote, Hey, gang, really love the tuxes show.
Thanks so much for that.
Just one comment.
Not sure I agree with the two year Hall of Fame bit where the winners are not involved
next year. So, for example, when Plasma wins next year, it'll be a bit of a hollow victory.
I think Gnome should be able to fight to keep their crown.
I think Simon touched on something that I was really conflicted about.
Right. Gnome is a great example because Gnome is the default for so many popular distributions
that it just has this massive advantage in the marketplace.
We kind of we don't want it to always win.
Right. That's boring.
Right. Exactly.
So, like, the idea is if it wins a couple of times in a row, you can assume this is a
people's favorite. And now out of what's left, what do the people like?
That was sort of the philosophy, but I'm not sure it's the right solution to the problem.
And I don't know if you guys have any thoughts on it.
Yeah, it does seem like the implementation has has a few issues.
And we have time to figure it out.
I mean, maybe there needs to be a higher bar.
Do we just not do it?
Do we need better categories?
Hmm. I think that's fair.
Let's imagine a world where you don't exclude Gnome because it's been a two time winner.
The day that it does get dethroned is more significant because whatever, you know,
replaces it or surpasses it, it's a well-earned accolade at that point.
How do you strike the balance and still make it interesting and not just have, well, no one
again this year? Like, how do you get that right?
Well, I think it's it's more interesting to look at how the ratios work out year to year.
So, for example, sure, Plasma and Gnome have been closing the gap over the past two years,
even though no one twice.
I think it's pretty fair to say that was something that's an interesting trend was the gap
between the Gnome and Plasma for the viewers has closed.
What happens? You know, the day that that flips is going to be a very interesting day,
indeed. Yeah, that's a good point.
I agree with that. So, like keeping the options on the table also lets you fairly judge how
people are feeling about everything on a year to year basis. And that gives you more
reasonable, more useful data over time to judge trends.
Like, if you remove Gnome next year, then you're basically saying by default you accept
that Gnome is going to be number one forevermore until it comes back into the list.
And so these are all jockeying for number two.
I think that's an unfair position for people to have.
And I think that's somewhat flawed because you're also changing the way you're
judging the way people think about their choices.
And so you don't necessarily know if they're actually voting for number two or number
one. So it throws into question what the value of the data is year over year when you're
trying to figure out what the trends are.
All right. So I think it sounds like the solution is to keep it, not do the Hall of Fame,
but for us to kind of watch the difference in the numbers and the proportions to the
votes. If something's pulling ahead, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah. And have a podium. So each year there's a first, second and third place.
And then you can talk about how the movement has been affected in that top three position
because you can see potentially who the up and comer is and how they're performing
against sort of the incumbent and maybe at some future date when they, you know, surpass
it. So, yeah, I think track the data, podium finish, and then, you know, you've got a
more accurate reflection of like how trends move because, you know, there was a time
when, you know, Ubuntu would have been at the top of everything.
And that's not the case anymore because there's many high quality distributions out
there and they're all doing different things.
And people's interests are reflected in the way that they vote.
I feel like part of the answer is also to ask the right questions in the form of the
categories. You know, we can formulate the categories in such a way that it might hint
at the up and comers as well and bring those to light.
So there's there are multiple ways.
All right. Well, then meeting adjourned, the feedback has been taken and we will make the
change to the tuxes. I like it.
I knew it felt kind of weird to me, but I was trying to come up with the right solution.
But I like this.
It also feels like this is the strength of feedback.
Like we love when you challenge us on our ideas and then we get to change for the better
for everyone. So thank you.
Absolutely. All right.
How about our next one?
Yeah, Max writes in asking, Is Apple helping Asahi?
Mid-last month, Apple, perhaps inadvertently, helped the Asahi team by adding raw image
mode for kernel files.
It was a minor thing, but according to Hector Martin, it's actually a pretty big deal for
them. Do you think that Apple will continue to help the Asahi team in little ways or at
least stand aside and not interfere?
Or do you think that as the chip transition completes, there's a possibility of them
introducing some major roadblock?
Hmm. I have some conspiracy bacon in this regard.
Oh, get that frying pan out, buddy.
I think it's possible that we might be seeing maybe a bit of a movement internally at Apple
when the engineers, simply put, I think the Apple engineers realize there's some areas
where they can make modest improvements and it doesn't really get noticed by upper
management because it's so low level in the stack.
And it makes it easier for Asahi Linux to have future updates.
And according to Hector Martin, he's really pretty convinced that there's no benefit to
Apple directly by making this change.
It simply helps Asahi Linux.
And my thought is really simple.
If I were making badass system on a chips that had great performance and had a bunch of
specialized processors that were exactly the kind of processing load you'd need on the kind
of cloud that I have, like the photo cloud, I'd be wanting to run these in a rack.
You know, no stupid casing, just like Google does, just motherboard on the rack, running
as many of these M1 boxes as possible.
Oh, a beautiful Mac rack.
And I'm not going to want thousands of Mac OS systems.
That's ridiculous.
I am going to want thousands of Linux boxes.
And it's in Apple's best interest to have this community do all this R&D for them.
And if an engineer can slip in how it handles a boot image and make a little tweak to make
it easier to run Linux, so that way a year down the road, they're popping Linux onto
their boxes.
I think it's a no brainer for them.
And it's not like anybody's going to notice that up the stack, right?
From the work I've been doing on QuickMU, I've got quite acquainted with the Mac OS
internals and certainly tracking the way that the I.O.
support has been increasingly added to and improved over several Mac OS releases.
My feeling is Mac OS do now have a very desirable silicon platform.
And particularly when you look at where Nvidia is dominant and where Intel and AMD want to
compete with Nvidia, it's in the compute AI ML arena for data centers.
And Apple have got a silicon platform that could enter that world in a meaningful way,
but not running Mac OS.
So I can see that Apple would be interested in seeing how they can further improve the
way that they can deliver their hardware platform into the data center for use for those
increasingly popular workloads.
And also the main driver for developer orientated laptops, you will notice, are always
equipped with high end GPUs.
That's like an absolute staple and a given.
So I can see that Apple, this may look innocuous and maybe benevolent, but I think there's
a method to the madness.
I fully anticipate that we'll see a return to blade like devices from Apple going into
data centers rather than racks and racks of Mac minis in rather cumbersome and awkward
aluminum squares.
I hate those things.
But I also think that there's another aspect to this, right?
So Apple runs their own private cloud infrastructure for their services, and they probably
want to be able to run it on the Apple hardware platform for themselves.
They are almost certainly blocked from contributing their internal Linux spring up into
the upstream projects.
But if a saw he does it and it just happens to work enough, then they're going to be
then they they get less work on their front and they can run Linux on arm internally for
their infrastructure.
And that also has the knock on effect of making Linux virtualization on Mac OS smoother,
because right now, if you do Linux virtualization on Mac OS on an M1, it air quotes works.
But like the it is imperfect and a lot of stuff just doesn't work quite right, because
the current platform assumptions are wrong.
And so a lot of what this is going to do is make that even smoother.
And then eventually bare metal Linux on M1 platforms will be or M2 or Apple arm or
whatever you want to call it will be a thing.
Maybe they will do X serve back from the grave and start doing like server arm platforms.
I'm not holding my breath for that.
But what I do think they're going to do is they're going to do it for themselves.
Yes, for sure.
I can't remember the exact figure, but they their contract that they agreed with AWS a
couple of years ago, it was an ungodly amount of money that they committed themselves to
for their AWS sort of committed usage.
Now, Apple are not short of money, but nevertheless, you don't become one of the
richest companies in the world by spending frivolously.
So, yes, I could absolutely see what Neil's explaining where they create a private cloud
environment and they run Apple on Apple.
Well, we know how much they like having, you know, full control of things up and down.
When they do have those, I think they have what, at least two ginormous data centers
in the United States that are just monsters.
So, yeah, we could see it.
I think that's definitely, definitely likely is it's an internal effort to just keep it
going. Now, unfortunately, that probably means they're not going to be super motivated to
like make the GPU easier to get working.
Well, the GPU is a function of the of the CPU itself and the way that they're the way
that their hardware platform is designed, the operating system driver in macOS is
intentionally super dumb.
And that means that a lot of the smarts happen at firmware initialization time rather than
operating system initialization time.
At least that's what Hector Martin said in one of his live streams.
It's also kind of funny that I think there's there's some subset of us that are just there's
this fear, right? Like, I don't know, it just seems like to me it's one of these things
that if it happens, it happens.
But like Hector's incredibly clever.
The community is incredible.
So we'll deal with that when we get there.
Exactly. Like, I'm not going to fret about it right now.
I want PyCrash to get the last word, then we should probably move on because PyCrash,
you point out it may also be some other element of this.
There could be a legal aspect to this.
Yes. So if I can phrase some conspiracy vague on myself, it could actually help them with
undergras issues.
If they say, hey, Apple is blocking us and they get an undergras lawsuit, they can say,
hey, we don't show an internal memo that they allowed Linux to continue or something like
that. Like that idea.
Look, here's this email thread where we encourage our developers to support this.
That would actually be really clever because they'd never have to produce it unless
something came up. I can see that.
Last week on the show, Wes wasn't here, Wes, but we ended up talking to Dave Jones from
the podcast index.
And in there, Dave talked about monetizing podcasts with the Lightning Network.
And then after the show, as we do, or after the interview with Dave, I started thinking,
what if this is a way, something, you know, what if this is one of the ways to monetize
free software development to help developers pay for their work?
Because one of the things that's interesting about the Lightning Network is you can send
very small amounts very quickly.
You can also run your own node so you can avoid sort of a middleman.
But you can also, if you're in part of the ecosystem and you have an open channel, you
can also make a little bit of money from that, too.
So a project could, it would have a like a channel fee.
And then after the show, like, I think it was like the next day.
I mean, it feels like it was forever ago now as we record, but like the next day, I think
we found out that the developer of FakerJS and was it ColorsJS?
Ah, yes.
That he kind of like just totally, totally flamed out, you know, put malicious code in
there that caused a loop.
And it was a big story.
And it really, once again, put a spotlight on this, we've really got to figure out how
to pay these developers.
And there was just another story just a couple of days ago.
I'm drawing a blank of the developer's name.
I mean, it's a, if you listen to Coda Radio, this, I mean, you guys are talking about this
perennially.
Yeah. And we all know it.
We've been honestly kind of enjoying sort of this software world of software abundance
that we kind of just type in a command, we get the thing we want and all of the dependencies
that it needs and it's up and going.
And we don't think about like the fact that each one of those packages has a person behind
it.
And, you know, I think we have some worries, too, that there's this sort of subset of
software that interacts with what these large companies, what their goals are.
And those tend to be well supported in service.
But then there's other, you know, we as various communities might have other goals.
And that's not always, doesn't have always the resources we might want.
Yeah.
Oh, boy.
This is something that you guys know about here, but we've just had a lot of struggles
just even even when we wanted to pay a developer, definitely like had a lot that just refused
to work with PayPal.
And this was a bigger problem when we were part of a larger company because larger companies
really don't even want to touch something like PayPal.
They don't want they want they want you to invoice them.
They'll pay you that way, either write a check or do an ACH or a wire payment.
All of those require access to the Western banking system, which is also has something
we've run into issues with multiple times, is that people just don't have access to that.
And so I have had more failures trying to pay free software developers than I have
actually been able to pay them.
And it's to the point where, like, we don't really talk about like, let's do a fundraiser
on the show, because my nightmare scenario is we raise like five grand and then I can't
get it to somebody because I've run into that so many times.
And I know it's frustrating for these developers because I've been told a lot that they just
don't even bother asking for donations or contributions because it's such a pain in the
ass for them to deal with it.
Now, there's no universal solution to this, right?
Like, this is a really complicated problem because there's a lot of countries involved.
There's a lot of laws that don't necessarily work with other countries' laws.
So I don't want to make it sound like it's a it's like an easy problem to solve.
But as time goes on, I start to feel like it might be an urgent, desperate problem to
solve because we do see these developers flaming out.
But in background, we get so much more like there's so much more, I guess it's common
knowledge in the free software community that just about everyone is totally burned out.
And everybody is kind of overtapped and it's kind of it's just that's the starting point.
And people that are in the community that speak with these developers, it's just common
knowledge.
But maybe those of us out here consuming things like a Linux distro package manager or MPM,
we don't really kind of have that exposure to it.
And so we don't really appreciate how bad the problem is because we're not really exposed
to it.
We kind of have a luxury of just getting to consume it at the top level.
So it was sort of after listening to Dave talk about ways to monetize content with this
lightning network, I started thinking, what if there was a way because all of the
technology is there, the ability to send payments around the world, the ability to automate
it, maybe, you know, you do a pull request and automatically you have a wallet that
automatically has a few SATs set aside and it sends a developer a contribution.
You set the amount kind of like a pay for what you want model.
That's how they're doing it with the podcast index.
And I thought, man, it's all there.
And on top of it, it's all free software.
But we definitely, you know, we touched a nerve because it's considered a third rail topic
right now, like so many things have become.
And I think a lot of it comes from a good place.
The concern comes from honestly, people have just kind of had it with inaction with climate
change.
And so they see these block chain technologies and there's two kinds.
And one is the proof of work style, which is what Bitcoin is, that just grinds it out.
And I think people have the view that that's sort of like the world's on fire and now Bitcoin
is coming along and it's throwing fuel on that fire.
You know, like we're at a point where we can't add anything more.
And I definitely appreciate that because I know multiple friends who have chosen not to
have kids because of the climate impact that having children has.
So I totally can appreciate like how strong people care about this.
And this is probably the number one thing that I heard about.
So as we as we kind of cover this, I just I have a couple of things that I want to mention and
then we're going to get into the email and we'll just kick it around.
Consider a world where crypto automates large swaths of the financial services, just does
things, basic contracts, financial transactions, you know, you know, you know, you know,
transactions, paying for goods.
It just does that. And it does it in an automated fashion.
If you look at the banking system, I don't know if people listen for a while, you might
recall I used to work for a local bank.
We had at one point one hundred and fifteen, one hundred and twenty servers for our 40
branch operation, right?
We had a mainframe, we had a data center, we just that one little bank.
Right. And there's so many of those kinds of banks in the United States, not to mention
MasterCard and Visa and your Bank of America's and your Wells Fargo.
It's currently estimated, although these numbers are hard to track and they don't really
like to publicize it, but it's currently estimated that the footprint of the global
financial system is about three percent of all emissions.
And it's estimated that Bitcoin is zero point one percent.
And I think there's a common misconception that if Bitcoin was doing more transactions,
it would use more power. But that's not how the network works.
Bitcoin uses the same amount of power for one transaction or for a thousand transactions.
That's how the system works.
And when it comes to the environmental impact of these kinds of things, things have
changed recently.
China changed the variables this summer.
China kicked out all Bitcoin miners and they were getting to be a large part of the
Bitcoin network. People are uncomfortable about that in the Bitcoin community.
It was getting close to like 70 percent of the capacity was in China and China kicked
them all out. Also, anecdotally, just 50 percent of the coal consumed in this last year
was consumed by China for their power.
So they have a real problem over there. Right. So they had to shut this thing down.
The vast majority of that mining power moved to the United States, but they did it in
2021 where the environmental impact is a big concern.
And these are businesses now. These are data centers.
Right. These aren't bros with mining rigs in their mom's basement that are hooked up to
the wall. Right.
Each rig starts at fifteen thousand dollars and they need thousands of them.
These are companies, they're public companies now.
And they have an image and they also have a bottom line and for their mining operation
to be profitable, they have to chase cheap renewable energies.
So as that business moved over to the United States, they did an interesting thing.
They played it really smart. For example, there's a mining facility now in Niagara
Falls. And they buy and sell surplus energy from the plant right there, hydropower right
there at the facility.
They previously were coal powered in China.
And so they can buy energy cheap from the power plant. And if the power plant needs
that energy back, they sell it back and they shut down their mining.
So they still make money because they sell the power back and they spend down their
mining operation. So there's more availability.
And there's also a huge explosion in 2021.
This just happened since the summer. So this is new stuff.
But there has been a big utilization of what they call stranded or flared natural gas.
And this blew my mind.
In just North Dakota alone, 20 percent of the natural gas is what they call stranded.
It's too difficult to take care of it.
So they just burn it.
Have you ever seen one of those big smokestacks that has a flame at the top?
That's a byproduct and it's natural gas and they just burn it because it's kind of hard.
So they can now build these facilities with these miners there.
And because these are data centers that don't require high speed connections like the
these are data centers that don't require high speed connections like maybe a Google
data center. They just need to get the blockchain.
They can be out in these remote areas and they're unique business partners with these
operations because they optimize for the lowest kilowatt hour.
And so they're kind of this energy of the last resort buyer, the kind of junk energy.
And when people get really kind of fired up about the energy use of Bitcoin, it's kind
of the first flag that maybe they don't really understand how the energy market works.
There's a bunch of this wasted energy that hasn't been monetized.
And there's also a category.
This is happening in Texas and some people are dismissing it because Ted Cruz has
attached his name to it.
But if you set that aside, if you don't collapse this down to a single variable, Ted
Cruz, and you look at what they're doing, they're stabilizing the renewable grid so
that there's consistent demand because there's a massive efficiency loss when they have
to ramp these operations up and then ramp these operations down.
And it's not like they have like a big bank of Elon batteries where they're storing
this stuff.
So these mining operations work as a bit of a computational battery that absorbs the
load that makes the renewables profitable.
So these rich who are never going to make renewables a thing unless they get rich off
of it are now making money.
They're now getting paid to use renewables and they're making these renewables actually
profitable. They're making them acceptable to the market.
And this is obviously to the best interest of these mining operations as well.
That's the market dynamics here.
And if we figure this out, if if we figure out a way to kind of leverage this junk
energy, this burn off energy, then not only have we solved a problem that may make
renewables easier to adopt, which is great because a lot of people are going electric
with their cars. So we need a better grid.
The power use problem is coming one way or another.
So what would be great is if we could kind of find a way for the industry to work
together. And here's my thinking on the problem.
Blockchain and the Bitcoin stuff, no matter how much you hate it, it's not going away.
And if you shun it and if the Congress creators fight it and you shame people for
using it, it'll just go into the shadows.
It's never going away.
For better or for worse.
So why not direct it in a positive direction, something that can help everyone?
And then if we solve the market dynamics around renewables, we've also just been
able to get this incredible blockchain technology that has a secure, decentralized
transactional system that also provides sound, hard money.
The upshots of this are so enormous.
And the entire reason we say let's not do this because we're concerned about the
possible environmental impact, the possible energy use.
So we're saying let's not do something because of what might happen instead of
let's figure out a way to make this work and we'll deal with the problem and we'll
innovate our way through the problem like you're seeing the industry start doing
since the China crackdown, you're already seeing it happen.
You're seeing the market incentives drag them in this direction.
It's because that's what makes them money.
So if we could somehow harness that greed for better and get all of this incredible
decentralized blockchain technology, everyone wins.
Now, Ben wrote in, he said, you talked about how the blockchain is an audible on a
public ledger, but the podcast index does not have any public governance documents
or finances.
I agree that there's a problem with 501c3 organizations, but as a private
organization, the podcast index has no requirement to release anything.
And as far as I can tell, they haven't released any finances or governances.
I believe that the folks in charge are currently on the top or on the up and up.
But if they leave, that could change.
I just don't really necessarily agree with the point that they need to release that
information.
I mean, they're just a small LLC company.
I think we could use something better for these kinds of things and maybe we're
building those tools right now, but I like, I just don't necessarily agree that in
order to run a useful index for podcasting that isn't managed by a mega
corporation, they don't have to be the absolute opposite and be some sort of, I
guess, what would that be a charity, I guess, maybe that where you'd be fully
transparent.
Yeah.
Or a commercial interest corporation, sorry, community interest corporation is
what we call them in the UK.
There's an awful lot to unpack in what you've said there.
There's several shows worth of discussion topics tucked away in there.
I think a couple of the interesting points I want to touch on aside from the
crypto, so rewarding open source contributors and open source contributors
burning out, flaming out.
If you're working really hard on something and you're not receiving any
compensation for your time and effort, then the motivation that you're getting
the motivation to flame out and stop working on it is higher than if you found
a way to get some compensation for your, you know, the effort that you've
invested in something.
So that's kind of a catch 22, because I know from personal experience, it is
hard to put the necessary legal and financial frameworks in place to receive
financial contribution for your projects and effort that then becomes a
continuing motivator to keep those projects and what have you alive.
I've been through that.
It is difficult.
I'm currently going through a tax assessment at the moment because of
things to do with the Ubuntu podcast.
Even, you know, we had a crowd funder for that for 18 months and that, that
shone a light on me from the tax authority in the UK.
And I've had to do an additional tax assessment just from, I don't know, 170
pounds or something, you know, so it's a, it's a lot of, you know, personal
investment to take a relatively small amount of money for, you know, something
that, you know, somebody thinks I'm giving a couple of pounds to, you know, a
podcast that I, I like.
So that's difficult, but overcoming that then creates a feedback loop for
developers to then get some reward for their effort and then be motivated to
continue working on something and not get burned out by it because they're
getting something in return for their effort.
Hopefully something that is equitable.
That's the bigger challenge to solve is what is, you know, reasonable
return on your time and effort.
Now, the other thing you talk about is the way that the energy markets work
in relation to vast compute resources.
And what's interesting in this country is the largest data center providers
in the UK now are the energy companies.
So it is the energy companies operate the largest, most cost
effective data centers in the UK.
Years ago, when I started working on data suites, bandwidth was the premium
thing that you used to pay for and energy was just something that was racked and
monitored and you would pay for as you go.
But today bandwidth is in air quotes free, and it's all about your energy
consumption and also more importantly, your AC requirement, your cooling
requirement, it's all about energy delivery.
So the economics of the data center have been completely tipped on their
head in the last sort of 15 years.
And here in the United States, our ancestry for data centers goes to
telecommunications rather than to energy companies, though energy companies
have always been part of it.
So from pretty much the very beginning, bandwidth was considered basically
the cheap part of having a data center.
So the way that it works in the UK now is basically the way it's always
kind of worked in the United States.
You pay for space, you pay for HVAC and you pay for energy.
Those are the primary things you pay for.
The bandwidth is like minuscule compared to all the rest of it.
But when it comes to some of the other things that you said, Chris, like you
mentioned the 501c3 thing, like the correct thing for something like this
would probably be a business association.
I'm not a financial expert or lawyer or whatever, but like typically
organizations like that one would be organized as a 501c6, like the Linux
foundation is, it's officially organized as a trade association or a business
association as a non-for-profit.
That gives you considerably more flexibility than a organization for the
public interest, which is what a 501c3 is legally defined as.
And so that's a thing from the funding perspective, I want to kind of echo a
little bit about what Martin said about how difficult that initial hump is
difficult, but then after you're there, it's probably smooth sailing.
Like it's still a bumpy ride all the way through, but like, regardless of
what country you're in, like I've told you before about like why I don't take
money because it's not that I'm not set up to do it.
I used to do freelancing, so I do actually have the experience.
To set up a structure to take in money for donations and whatnot, but it's a
bunch of extra work and the IRS or your equivalent in whatever country you're
in, they will spend an inordinate amount of effort to audit you for so little
money and it is such a waste of everyone's time.
And this problem doesn't go away when you switch to cryptocurrencies.
In most countries, cryptocurrencies make it worse, not better.
If you take a tiny amount of money in crypto, like the IRS flips out at you.
Like super hard.
So like it sort of depends on the attitudes of the individual regulators,
the countries where they live, how things are structured.
Like most countries are not El Salvador who have decided to recognize a
cryptocurrency as an official secondary currency.
That is a huge pain in the butt area right now.
I kind of take a like a five, 10 year view of those sorts of issues because
you are starting to have like the mayor of New York and the mayor of Miami are
now getting paid in Bitcoin.
So there are fairly public officials that are starting to do this.
So it's going to move this thing forward here in the States.
I think that when I'm reading through Ben's email here, what kind of struck me
was he's just he says he considers himself a blockchain skeptic, which that
seems pretty fair.
But he says, you know, when we're talking about the climate impact of
Bitcoin, one of the things you have to consider is like, I don't think this is
Ben, he says, I don't think it's proven itself to even be necessary or justified.
So like, what are we getting in return?
And see, that's an area where people who maybe aren't familiar with what's going
on, because it's such a dense community with all these different terms and
languages, that's a pretty reasonable perspective to have.
But I've been looking at this and I'm very impressed.
There's a lot of different things from different access to financials that are
maybe available to people that don't have the best credit or really bad credit.
That's something that's becoming more common using decentralized technology,
and it's still very early and risky right now.
It's now possible also for people to get take loans out against their Bitcoin,
giving people access to some financing that maybe have bad credit or maybe have
maxed out a credit card and they're in a tough situation.
Like myself, I have no medical insurance.
If I were to get in a car accident and I had a big bill, I would take a loan out
against my Bitcoin.
It wouldn't be something I'd want to do, but that's the situation I find myself
in.
It may save my life.
It gives me that kind of access.
Every piece of equipment in the studio that we're using right now to record with
the exception of the mic Brent is using was bought with Bitcoin, and I turned it
into something that then I used to make a living off of.
I think there's some uses there, but there's a fascinating area of development
because one of the things that's complex about this is there's lots of different
blockchains and all these different things that are happening.
One of the things that's interesting is there are types of blockchains like
Chainlink that are bringing in outside information that's verifiable and secure
and providing it as a feed to the blockchain.
An example of this is they've partnered with AccuWeather, and they've partnered
with some ground sensor stations and some satellite sensor stations.
I'll have links about this in the show notes if you're curious.
What they are able to do with this information is they are now providing through
a series of different decentralized exchanges and funding methods and some
companies they're working with, they're providing insurance to farmers in
countries that have no insurance framework, where their land perhaps suffers
some kind of disaster, some sort of climate-related disaster.
Because it is provable, was there rain, they're using seismic sensors, they have
satellite data that's coming in via these oracles into the blockchain, they can see
all of this, it's not like a disputable thing, so they are able to provide
insurance to these farmers now that have no access to insurance.
Now you zoom that out, and you think about where something like that could go.
That blockchain is using what's called proof of staking, so it doesn't actually
use the intensive CPU GPU mining either. It's very environmentally friendly.
So you zoom out where there's different types of technologies, it's not all just
one thing, and they're able to offer things that it could be possible that in 10, 15,
20 years, we have alternatives that are just simply never been available to people, like
people that have never had access to banking, maybe they've never had access to insurance,
maybe they've never had access to credit and loans, that would be me on all three counts.
And I'm sitting here in the Seattle area living a fairly comfortable lifestyle,
and I still have those problems, and it's just getting worse, not to mention people
all around the world. So they have legitimate uses today, right?
There's people that are in this virtual room right now that have paid for their home
using Bitcoin. There's real value to that, that gave wealth to the people that are using it.
Gave wealth to the middle class during a time where we've had a dot-com boom, a 2008 recession,
now we have the financial issues and the supply chain issues and the inflation issues that are
going on now, and it gave the generation, my generation that's coming up during all of that,
access to wealth. I now have a sustainable business because early on, I warmed my studio
by GPU mining Bitcoin. That's something. And that made a difference. And now I provide for
a family with that. And everybody out there, so these things, they have real uses, and it's just
getting more and more adoption. But it's really early days, and there's a lot of risk, and there's
still a lot of scams. A lot of things are going to go wrong. There's still a lot of regulation
issues that are going to come up. But I feel like there's actually more opportunity with some of
this, and it's kind of thrilling that it's free software. Brent, you've been kind of exposed to
a lot of this recently, and I know that you've kind of come around a little bit on this subject,
too. You probably came into it a little skeptical, I would imagine.
Yeah, I got to say this trip has totally informed me in this area. I didn't,
you know, I was always interested in Bitcoin, but it seems like such a thick pool to jump into
to even gain some basic knowledge. But thankfully, you and I started this lightning node project up
in your office. And I think you mentoring me through some of the jargon, but also some of
the concepts and some of the problems that this is really solving. It's really made me
realize that the future seems a bit bright in many ways. Many of us would probably be interested in
the technology that goes into even making these coins possible. I mean, it's a fascinating
landscape of mostly open source technology, as far as I understand. And the fact that we could
run that on a little node on an old computer upstairs and really participate in a low level,
like it's, it's almost like if a little bank in your computer upstairs, it's it's super fascinating.
And so if anyone's not really sure about all these concepts,
dig in, like, there doesn't need to be a risk to dig in and read a whole bunch. There's some
fascinating podcasts, even I want to mention only one. It's called what Bitcoin did. There's some
amazingly intelligent people who are on there from all walks of life that are very informed in
these topics and have come often from the traditional world, and are suggesting the value
of what Bitcoin and related technologies can solve. And so I've been just super fascinated to
the point, Chris, where you have to say, No, no, we got to focus on Linux content to not just
Bitcoin stuff. And I think that drives a little bit of this conversation. But I think it's one
that many of us who are interested in open source technologies and desktop Linux, even that's kind
of the stuff that got us excited in the first place to dive into this realm. And I think Bitcoin
and all of the cryptocurrencies can be fun in that same way of sort of discovery and solving real
world problems with some alternative technologies. Yeah, it feels very much like we are at the stage
with this technology, where things were right before the dot com boom, we are leading up to
the dot com boom for crypto. And there will be a kind of a pop at some point could be I don't know
how many years and then there will be a few obvious valuable contenders that remain your
Amazons, right, you'll have your pets.com and you'll have your Amazons, and your Ask Jeeves
and your Googles. And that's what we're gonna see shake out over time. And it's just super early
days. But Wes, what do you think about this idea, though, that, you know, it hasn't really
necessarily proved itself and the potential bad seems, seems bad enough that we probably shouldn't
even attempt it? Yeah, I'm not sure I find that super compelling. I mean, I think I can understand
the argument, but I think we're just gonna, we're gonna see, I tend to agree with you that once
these sort of genies are out of the bottle, I mean, not that we can't put them back in, but that
that just goes against a lot of human nature. And I mean, it seems like a lot of this stuff is gonna
end up, especially as you say, after after bubbles after this, you know, the hype cycle, right,
like, I think there are some valuable concepts, maybe the current implementations aren't the thing
that we need, right. But we're lowering barriers to entry, we're making things more programmable.
There's a lot of excitement, I think, Brent, as you've seen, right. And yeah, okay, maybe a lot of
this stuff, maybe most of it doesn't go anywhere. But we need to remind ourselves that it's useful
to be open. And I think we can, you know, as long as we've set up the appropriate guardrails and
such, and where that's a, that's another whole other thing that we can do. And I think that's
another thing that we can, you know, as long as we've set up the appropriate guardrails and such,
and where that's a, that's another whole other thing to debate and talk about. But
Technology Connections on YouTube just had a great video, but it's about can openers nominally, but
just talking about how not open we can be at times. And look, I don't, I don't, I don't know that this
can take over everything. But some ideas might stick around. And it's, it's worth letting ourselves
explore. I think too, one of the things that Brent and I found fascinating when we were sitting,
he's so many parallels with the Linux community. Yeah. Brent's over there shaking his head like,
yeah, totally. Like, uh, I sure am just all of like the, the types of conflicts that they have
and the ideals. There's some groups that they are like, you know, how in the Linux community,
you have like people that are like really extreme about the GPL and, and really the, you know,
strict definitions of freedom. Well, in, in the cryptocurrency communities, you have people that
are like super, super opinionated about decentralization, right? It's like they,
everything has to be hyper decentralized or it's garbage. And then you have other people on the
other end. They're like, no, centralization is efficient, right? And it's this, it's this whole,
it's just a different debate, but it's the same exact dynamic. And you have all of these open
source projects. Some of them are managed like a clown show and some of them are like professional
operations. And you can kind of look at them from like that kind of standpoint. And there's a lot
of parallels there. I agree that just because it's open source doesn't make it necessarily good,
but I think like all tools, it just really depends on how we use it. And in a way pushing against it
seems counterproductive and trying to figure out how to work with it seems proactive, but maybe
we're about to get more information in just a couple of days. There is a hearing that sounds a
little hostile cause it's called the cleaning up cryptocurrency, but there is a hearing in the United
States government on January 20th, 2022. They're going to have a hearing on the energy use and
they're going to specifically look at proof of work, which is the style that Bitcoin is.
So there may be more information there. My, you know, my expectations are set to low,
to be honest, but perhaps in the show notes though, if you're curious about this topic and
really we're not trying to go on about this, hopefully this is the last word for a while.
I will link to a incredibly good report. It's a little jargon heavy because they're deep in
the industry, but this guy really knows his stuff. It's a PDF. It's like 160 pages.
It's quite the report on this ecosystem. If you want one definitive resource to kind of come up
to speed on things, that's the PDF. And then also I have the Cambridge university's Bitcoin electricity
consumption index where they're doing a real time monitoring of the, uh, you know, comparatively to
some industries. I think they left out banking, but if you want some numbers on the current
energy usage as we know it and where it's all distributed, that is in the show notes as well.
And with that, hopefully we're done talking about this.
Linode.com slash unplug. Head on over to Linode and get yourself a hundred dollars for 60 days
on a new account. And you support the show Linode is fast and reliable cloud hosting. You should
really try it for yourself. Maybe your next project, maybe the next thing you want to try out,
they have sent off stream nine on there. Now Alma Linux and Rocky Linux are all available on Linode.
If you've been wondering what that user experience is like, why not create an account, support the
show and try it out. And with a hundred dollars, you could actually deploy some really nice systems
or mess around with some serious storage. In fact, they've been rolling out MVME PCA storage.
So you're going to get fantastic performance on those systems. They have some super high
end CPU rigs as well. So if you're a performance hound, there's definitely some stuff over there
that you're going to love. If you're also, I guess, would it be called a value hound?
I don't know if that's a thing, but if that's what you do, Linode can be 30 to 50% cheaper than the
big hyperscalers and these big hyperscalers, you know, maybe they're going to try to like pull you
in with their offers. Sure. They got their offers, but once they got you, they've really got you in
their own ecosystem, right? With their own vernacular, their own dashboards, the whole
thing. And once you're in, man, you're really in. Linode's not like that. It's just a nice,
clean user interface, like really kind of the apex of what you'd want when you get to use a cloud
provider's dashboard. Simple to understand, but you can go deep when you need to. They have a
fantastic API and a command line client that works great too. So it's just like that nice package.
So, you know, it's also a great option maybe if you want to do something like a multi-cloud setup,
you know, tie it all together with a little Nebula backend. Do you know what I'm saying?
Go try it out. Linode.com slash unplugged. Get a hundred dollars for 60 days on a new account
and you go there to support the show. Linode.com slash unplugged.
Okay. So we have a little tradition here on the show where we run a rolling server because nobody
should ever do that. And we thought let's do it. So you don't have to. And also just to kind of
make West sweat because nothing really bothers West. You got to put them really on the spot.
We thought let's own our updates right here, live on the air. And it's our first time for the Tumble
Weed. And we have, we have a new, we have like a new theme. We have like a new kernel, the whole thing. So let's do it.
Okay. West Payne. We've got a brand new kernel. Plus we have our ZFS packages.
What are we looking at in terms of update work here? 985 packages to upgrade, three to downgrade,
seven new and 67 to remove. That's an overall download size of just over a gig.
After the operation, an additional 300 megs will be used. Okay. Not quite the arch numbers
we're used to seeing, but I'll take it. And it looks like we've got Linux kernel 5.16 rolling in.
Oh, all right. Is the download kicked off? No. All right. Let's do it. Yeah. Let's do it. All right.
And hey, you know, Zipper does handily note here, a system reboot is required. Yeah. Good. That'll be
fun. We'll see how that goes. All right. So here we go. We actually have some feedback to this too,
that we're going to get to a little bit in the show. So we'll come back to this. We'll let the
updates run. So standby West, let it go. And then maybe after we do a few more server emails,
we'll check on it. Okay. Fingers crossed everyone. All right. So while that goes,
there was a few bits of email about how we configured the server. And I think it was Joe,
listener Joe, who wrote in about our ZFS setup. And he said, you're really not going to want to
do your V devs that way. So he wrote, I just finished listening to episode 439 and I was
really sad. Oh, we made listener Joe sad West. I think this is really sweet too, because Joe
obviously cares about our data. I know. Seemingly more than we do. Perhaps. And he says, I was
really sad to hear about the Zpool design. With 20 plus disks, you should have at least two,
if not three V devs to help for all the reasons you mentioned, which is the rebuild, the resiliency,
and honestly just ZFS stability. ZFS has a history of not handling 15 plus drive V devs well. And
then they, uh, provides a handy TrueNAS link. I can see people nodding their head in the, uh,
gypsy room. I warned you. I know. I know. And so, uh, we have been, we've been debating it
back and forth and I'm open to this. I don't love it cause we're going to lose some storage. That's
why we're storage maximalists here. And we just wanted, uh, all of the storage, but I also don't
want to have a problem child, you know, like how much is it that you do want the server to work?
I want it to stay up. Like if it's actually going to affect stability. All right. Now you got my
attention. That's where I draw the line risk of data loss. Okay. Maybe cause we were going to have
a clone server. And so in C in theory we'd have a mirror, but when you start saying like the server
is going to be crashing or going up and down or I'm going to have issues, that just drives you
crazy. We should at some point, Chris, like, you know, off to the side, have like a dedicated
discussion about your storage configuration, what you actually want to do and what your actual
options are for your current storage plan and your growth plan. Because I think we just haven't
seriously thought through that, um, for your, for your server storage design. Cause I think you'd
kind of take it, you're kind of assuming that nothing is going to change and we should really
seriously think about what it would look like if we change some of those knobs and, and, and thought
about like what you actually would like to get to closer to an ideal state for your storage setup.
All the storage, all the storage, that's what I'm trying to get to the storage is not exactly a
well-defined option. So we should, we should figure that out. Like at some point, you know,
cause I've been doing, I do a lot of this like professionally and personally, we should,
you know, spend some time and like actually sit down and like maybe even make diagrams and charts
and stuff of like figuring out what your options are. So we can actually do some proper planning
here because once you fully initialize this and you start, like you, you don't have a,
a backup system to shift data around, to be able to reorganize your storage, you're basically
stuck. So we have this really small window where if like you're going to regret this choice,
we can fix it. But like once you start piling stuff on, um, we can't fix it anymore until
you get another machine. Stay a while and listen. We got a fork of the road, son. Um, okay. So all
right. Okay. Let's slow down. Brent, we got some other server. We got a lot of emails about building
a rack and about what we can do with these Dell servers. So let's maybe start there while Wes has
down updates. How's your updates going in progress? Okay. All right. So Brent, you want to start with
maybe our first one in that regard that we'll work our way down the list. Shouter in our matrix room
suggested a few things about the new server, which will inform our server rack build. So here we go.
He says Dell 12th gen is fresh air compliant. So it was built to operate at up to 113 Fahrenheit.
Whoa. Ambient temps. I think that might help us in that garage for a given number of hours
per year without losing warranty. Perfect for Jupiter hosting garage colo. All right, let's
load it up. So I was originally under the assumption because last August when you and I
were leaving on the trip, it was darn hot in that garage. So I even remember doing a few band-aid
solutions in the ceiling and stuff to try to keep the temps down. But it may have even gotten as
high as 120. Well, that's it. And I wondered, Chris, do you have any data recorded on the
temperatures in that place? No, I should get a sensor in there. It really should. I think you
have the means. Alex, I can see him listening, just shaking his head. I just don't want to set
up a Z-Wave network. But you know, the other thing that's tricky about that, right, is sometimes in
the summer you pull in there with a hot car too. So there's that as well. Yeah. So I wondered,
you know, he suggests that 113 for a number of hours per year. But this could be, you know,
a few months at a time. That is impressive, though. Strong argument for doing nothing.
All right. You got another one. Keep going. Keep going. All right. He says the number two,
Podman. Awesome. Please produce some content around networking,
rootless and handling PID, PGID is different from Docker. Some comments around Linux server
I O two and how you'd apply a multi service user setup for jacket torrent plex setups,
and VPN wire guard slash swag setup with the networking namespaces and routing between pods.
I'm already regretting that we did it. I am. Because twice in the last week, you know,
there's been times where I'm like, oh, this all this documentation assumes only Docker,
or this easy try this script only only assumes Docker. And it's just like, I ended up setting
up blank systems just so I could run Docker and not run it on my super nice new server.
That's what happened. That's a that's maybe a small backfire. Because the idea was is
I'll figure it out. I'll try it and I'll get it working. And it'll be it'll be awesome. We'll
talk about on the show. And the reality was, is I just want to get this going because I got five
other things to do. And this isn't what I sat down to do. I didn't sit down to solve this problem
right now. And that's just human nature, I suppose. So don't do like we do stick with what
you know. You know, and he also calls for us to like post some of our our information on get
maybe we'll get to that point. I don't really think we want anybody using what we're using
right now. I'll tell you what. All right. There's a lot of feedback. Are we good on that? We get on
the feedback? I think I feel good about that. And I just want to say, thank you, everyone,
for your feedback. Yeah, it's making us think this we have so many wonderful audience members
who know so much more about this and have much better ideas. Yeah, we got to be grateful for
that. And we got some of the most pushback we've got in a while. But they were all good
conversations. Linux unplug dot com slash contact. Thank you very much. We'd like to hear more. Yeah,
keep them coming. Now go refill our inbox. You know, that's what happens next. All right. So
here's a pic that's really only going to be great for you plasma users. But you know how I've gone
on and on for a while about how tiling would be best for me if I could designate some virtual
desktops or some some desktops as tiling and some virtual desktops as just free floating. Yeah,
right. Like partial but desktop separated. Yeah. So like I'd probably have like my email and chat
app as a tiled desktop and maybe like a terminal. And you know, but then maybe I want my browser
and my notes to be free floating. Well, I think it's called bismuth or bismuth. I love this part
of the show. I know. It always comes time to pronounce something for the first time out loud.
And it is a KD Plasma extension lets you tile your windows automatically. Oh, manage them via
a keyboard just like a regular tile and desktop. And it lets you apply it to only one particular
virtual desktop. Chris, you seem to say all this like you wish you knew this like a year or two
ago. Oh, man, this is so great. This is exactly what I was talking about. And I like the way it
does it. And this is I'd love to see system 76 support this in their cosmic desktop. I think
that'd be so great. This does look okay. Yeah, I'm trying this after the show. This extension
seems familiar. Yeah, I forget who sent this to me. We had some feedback that suggested it,
I think a month ago or so. Oh, never says it's not so great. Oh, no. Oh, yeah. Now I remember
because I think I mentioned this to you like six ish months ago as a Wayland compatible alternative
to what's that one that everybody used to talk about for a wayfire? Cronkite. That's it. Oh,
Cronkite. This one is forked from Cronkite. I suppose if you're a connoisseur of these kinds
of things, it may be lacking. So we'll have a link to bismuth, bismuth, bismuth, barksmith,
barksmith forage for plasma. You know, I realize it's not for everybody, but you know, maybe give
it a go. See what see if it works for you. It links to all that kind of stuff at linuxonplug.com
slash four four one. Remember, we do get together every Sunday at noon Pacific. We get going around
1230 Pacific. And well, this week we got going a little bit late. Well, sometimes we just like to
hang out. And if you're a member, you get access to what was essentially an entire show that we
did before we sat down to record sometimes several shows. Yeah, but this week was definitely at least
one show in the pre show. So you can go to unplug core.com to support the show directly. Or if you'd
like to support the entire network, that's a Jupiter party. Then you get all the shows ad free.
That's pretty sweet. Right. It sure has been great having you down here at the students. Thanks for
being such a great host. You're definitely leaving it better than you found it. Yeah.
Yeah. That's what I try to apply to every place. All of that bathrooms in rough shape. But I think
we got it from here. But you know, I'm just noticing like the lights are down. The floor is
missing. Just a disaster up there. There's a giant monument to Brent installed in there now, too.
Yeah. And it's dirty. I mean, is that is that copper? One of the kids actually wrote
good luck Brent on the wall and then we painted over it. So yeah, forever.
That's true. That always be there. All right. Well, thank you so much for joining us on this
week's episode. You're always welcome to join us live or just grab the feed at Linux unplugged.com
slash subscribe. Always appreciate you downloading, listening and sharing the show with anybody.
That's also that's also really nice. Word of mouth is really how podcasts grow. So we really
do appreciate that. All right. That's it. Thanks so much for joining us. And we'll see you right
back here next Sunday.
Well, one of my predictions may be coming true faster than I expected. It looks like
the Flat Hub community is looking at ways to pay developers in 2022. And they have a whole thing
here about it. I'm really pleased to see this. It looks like Flat Hubs getting serious in 2022. They
got a whole outline of stuff that they have for ideas on growing the Flat Hub community. And
we'll link to it in the show notes. It looks looks great. The most important thing is that
they're going to set up a foundation through the Linux Foundation to make it so that there's
somebody who could take the money. Like the reason Flat Hub couldn't do it before is because there
was nobody to take the money. Hey, we're ready for update over here. You know what? Good thing.
We just put one more thing in the power of the Linux Foundation. That is great. Update complete.
We're ready to reboot. Let's do it. Let's kick it off, Westpain. This is going to be a long reboot
too, because it's got all them disks. What distro is it? Tumbleweed. Yep. This is our first big
upgrade since we switched to Tumbleweed. We've been waiting to do it on air. How long between
updates? Well, two weeks. Two, three weeks. New kernel. And we are using ZFS. So the ZFS is the
wild card. Hey, Chris. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just to let you know, I was running Tumbleweed up until
yesterday and I applied probably many of these same updates that you're installing now and
actually broke my system and broke the kernel. Where were you at the start of the show? Couldn't
you tell us that before we hit reboot? For what it's worth, I knew that this was going to I knew
about this because other people had told me about it as well. All right. Oh, no. Are you saying
there's a there's a deal breaker in here that's known like this? Is this something we should have?
Is this like an arch check the news page? We never did that, but I did never buy it.
Not wash a love plug room in the. I was just there. I was just there watching the love plug
room. If you just watch that like you, you would have seen me complaining about like how I try to
open. OK, so like Tumbleweed is like the one district that I really want to run. But the
Bistro just really, really, really hates me because I can I can just do like a simple desktop installation
just run an update and it breaks. I am reasonably confident that your upgrade will succeed because
the conditions in which it will fail are not present on your system. Well, I have good news.
It is booting right now. I see the system coming up. It's mounted. But the condition in which it
fails is that you have the NVIDIA driver installed. OK. All right. Because NVIDIA driver is not for
516 compatible yet. Hey, look at Wes. Wes, I think I think we got a console. Let's see if we.
Oh, I've got some pings over here. The IP didn't change to see if it came online.
Yeah, that's the win. If the ZFS is there, it's a win. I thought we were doing butter.
Butter fest for the root. But that doesn't we don't have to worry about that. Yep. Here we go.
Levi is. Oh, yeah. Take that everywhere. It passes its first on the air upgrade successfully.
Let's see how long it keeps that streak.